## Session 1: Setting a Vision for Making 

Please print out the vision statement tool, and watch the brief video before reading through the activity. 

### Resources
 * [Vision Statement Tool](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B73IBpX2ukUbOW12WE5qUk5FcmM)
 * [Animated Explanation](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0Byq8c7qHfLKYdV82NERoOXJ6bnc)
 * Video Guide for Tool Use

### Framing
The goal of the activity is to create a succinct vision statement for your makerspace. The vision statement tool enables participants to form something akin to an “elevator pitch.” Therefore, try to identify an audience (the person stuck in the elevator with you). Is it a parent? Community member? Board member? Manager? While it is assumed that by the end of this activity, or the week, your organization’s maker-based vision statement may not be in a final form, the activity is intended to help you take the first important steps to forming a single statement that reflects many of the core priorities for your makerspace or maker programs.  

### Activity Sequence
*This activity may take about 2-3 hours to thoroughly complete.*

1. This is intended to be a group activity, but you can adapt these instructions if you are working by yourself. The overall sequence of the activity is to work on a prompt individually and then discuss as a group the highlights of what each person wrote. Then move on to the next prompt. You can estimate taking about 5 minutes to write down your ideas for a prompt and about 5 minutes to discuss the group’s ideas for the prompt. Use the extra prompt text below to help generate ideas. Write down words, phrases or sentences that apply to each prompt.
1. After putting down ideas for a prompt, take eview your responses to each of the prompts, as a group.
1. Once your group has completed the Vision Statement sheet, and made notes under each prompt, they should work to combine these individual statements into a single statement. If possible, video record one or more people reciting the statement, like an “elevator pitch.” Think about who your audience might be for such a pitch.  Try to limit your pitch to a minute or two. 
1. Read (or have members of your team) read the vision statement aloud and make refinements.
1. Consider some of these questions: What were some takeaways from the process for you (individually or as a group)? What was challenging about this process? Which prompt was the most challenging to address? Easiest to address? 
1. Revisit this statement and the prompts from time to time as a way to evaluate its relevance for your work related to making.
1. Community Connection: Upload what you’ve completed with your vision statement--either what you’ve written in the tool or your current version of a vision statement, and even do a video recording of your pitch to the course forum. 

## Activity Prompts
**Prompt 1: We Believe:** What are your values? What is your philosophy?
This is the emotional core of your makerspace and what it addresses for your organization. While you and your team might have many beliefs about your learners and supporting learning, your most essential values for your makerspace or maker program will be surfaced here. 
* Do you believe all children are creative or should be creative?
* Do you believe all adults can be entrepreneurs?
* Do you believe all members of your community should have access to high-tech tools and materials?

**Prompt 2: Based On:** What are our strengths? What are our areas of expertise?
There’s a reason why a makerspace or maker program makes sense in your institution. And, there are certain strengths and expertise that your institution has.
* Are you a leading provider of children’s programs in your community?
* Do your programs provide experiences that develop scientific thinking?
* Has your organization been at the cutting edge of technological learning experiences in your area?
* Do you and your team bring strengths that proove a makerspace is a natural evolution of what you provide for your community members or target audience?
 
**Prompt 3: We Aim To:** What are our goals? What do we want to accomplish?
Makerspaces and maker programs aim to achieve a wide variety of salient and reasonable goals. However, productive makerspaces and maker programs are clear about what they want to accomplish based on their strengths and their core values. This prompt seeks to center on what impact your makerspace or maker program hopes to have.
* Do you want to develop creativity in the children your program serves?
* Do you want to develop scientific inquiry skills in your program participants or their technological fluency?
* Do you want to target specific technical or craft skills for young adults that may translate to the workplace?
* Maybe you want to create a consistent place for teens to come after school so that they are not “on the streets.”
 
**Prompt 4: Who is the audience that our program or space serves?** Who are the stakeholders of our program or space?
This prompt provides a chance to specify whom the stakeholders are that the makerspace is targeting.
* Does the makerspace focus on a particular age group, or demographic group?
* Does your makerspace target a particular expertise level of amateurs or experts?
* Does your makerspace seek to work with a particular interest group like hobbyists, students, or teachers?
 
**Prompt 5: Because We Know:** Why is this important? What have you observed?
You can think of this prompt as your “needs statement.” What problem or issue will your makerspace or maker program be solving or addressing. This prompt provides an opportunity to incorporate some data into your pitch.  Although it might strengthen your story to use “hard” data to support your makerspace or maker program in the minds of some stakeholders, what you see and what your audience tells you also provides compelling warrant for what you are doing.
* Is science learning important because currently only 10% of your community’s juniors perform competently on state standardized science tests?
* Are creative arts classes being cut from local schools and so youth need opportunities to engage in creative endeavors?
* Have you noticed many groups of teens hanging out near your organization with little to do?
* Have children told you they want to learn how to make clocks?

**Prompt 6: We Will Succeed When:** What are our metrics for success? What are the indicators that our program is working? How will you know that you are reaching the impact that you aim to have? Metrics for success are challenging, but useful for showing the change over time, as a makerspace or maker program becomes a reality.
* While many programs traditionally use metrics like the number of people who attend a program as a measure of success, those metrics might not truly capture the quality of the learning experience that is being creating in a makerspace or through a maker program.
* Perhaps the number of participants served is appropriate if your goal is simply to offer a safe, alternative experience to what teens in your community currently might be doing.
* If the design process is important for your space, then evidence of iteration may be your marker of success.
